# Sign-Variability
We model asexual populations of constant size, N, evolving in discrete, non-overlapping generations under the influence of selection and drift as the only evolutionary forces (i.e., without mutation). Each simulation starts with two lineages: one comprising a single sign-variable invader and the other comprising N-1 sign-invariant residents. Simulation ends when the sign-variable lineage is either fixed or lost from the population. 

Every generation, the population reproduces according to the Wright-Fisher model. The size of each lineage in the next generation is randomly drawn from a binomial distribution with expectation N∙x∙w, where x is the frequency of the lineage in the previous generation and w is the relative fitness of the lineage (i.e., lineage’s fitness divided by the average fitness of the population). The fitness of the invariant residents is always ln(w)=1.0. 

The fitness of the sign-variable invaders is determined as follows. 
Between-lineage sign variability: At the beginning of each replicate simulation, the fitness of the sign-variable invader is chosen randomly to be either ln(w) = 1+scost or ln(w)=1+sben with probabilities Pcost and Pbenefit respectively. The invader’s fitness remains unchanged in all its descendants until the end of the simulation.
Within-lineage sign variability: At the beginning of each replicate simulation, the fitness of the sign-variable invader is set to either ln(w) = 1+scost for mutations under negative time- and frequency-dependent selection or ln(w) = 1+sben for mutations under positive time- and frequency-dependent selection. It remains unchanged in all its descendants until either time t (under time-dependent selection) or until its frequency exceeds critical frequency x* (under frequency-dependent selection). The fitness of all contemporary sign-variable carriers is then instantaneously changed from ln(w) = 1+sben to ln(w) = 1+scost for models of negative time- and frequency-dependent selection or vice versa for models of positive time- and frequency-dependent selection. 
